# Rape Myth Acceptance as Networks of Discursive Expressions

This repository contains the supplemental material and analysis scripts for a
project re-examining data from rape myth acceptance scales.

## Data

Data from the following papers and data sets have been used:

Balezina, M. (2023). Measuring Attitudes Towards Rape in Russia: Translation and
Validation of the Illinois Rape Myths Acceptance Scale. Retrieved from
https://osf.io/9uws8/

Banyard, V. L., Plante, E. G., & Moynihan, M. M. (2008). Rape Prevention Through
Bystander Education at a Northeastern State University, 2002-2004.
Inter-university Consortium for Political and Social Research (distributor).
https://doi.org/10.3886/ICPSR04367.v1

Dawtry, R. J., Cozzolino, P. J., & Callan, M. J. (2019). I Blame Therefore It
Was: Rape Myth Acceptance, Victim Blaming, and Memory Reconstruction.
Personality and Social Psychology Bulletin, 45(8), 1269–1282.
https://doi.org/10.1177/0146167218818475

Fernsund, H. E., & Luke, T. J. (2023). Measuring Rape Myth Acceptance in Sweden:
Psychometric Properties of a Swedish Translation of The Acceptance of Modern
Myths About Sexual Aggression Scale. https://doi.org/10.31234/osf.io/h79t8

Hahnel, R., Goetz, C., & Goetz, A. T. (2023). Men’s Attitudes Toward Third Party
Casual Sex Predict Rape Myth Acceptance. PsyArXiv.
https://doi.org/10.31234/osf.io/94smh

Łyś, A. E., Bargiel-Matusiewicz, K., Krasuski, T., & Studzińska, A. (2023).
Psychometric properties of the Polish updated Illinois rape myth acceptance
scale. Current Psychology, 42(1), 445–459.
https://doi.org/10.1007/s12144-020-01249-3

Nyúl, B., & Kende, A. (2023). Rape myth acceptance as a relevant psychological
construct in a gender-unequal context: The Hungarian adaptation of the updated
Illinois rape myths acceptance scale. Current Psychology, 42(4), 3098–3111.
https://doi.org/10.1007/s12144-021-01631-9

Data from each study are downloaded automatically from OSF by running the code,
except for Nyúl & Kende (2023) and Banyard et al (2008), which need to be
downloaded manually.

## Compendium Structure

- Analysis scripts are stored in `/R/`.
- Data visualizations generated by the code are stored in `/figures/`.
- Objects that are computationally demanding to generate are stored in 
`/output/`.
- qmd files to generate markdown reports are stored in the root directory.
- Readable markdown reports are stored in the root directory.

## How to Reproduce the Analyses

### Light Reproducibility 

To recreate the analyses and visualizations, the most efficient method is to
knit the Quarto markdown documents for the studies you are interested in. Doing
so will automatically execute the relevant scripts, which will download the
necessary data, recreate the visualizations, and load the estimated models
stored in the compendium. The advantage of this approach is that it is efficient
and will recreate the data environment I used when originally working with the
data. The notable disadvantage is that it does not actually reproduce the model
estimation process; it simply loads the stored versions. For most purposes, such
as exploration of the data or closer inspection of the models as I worked with
them, this method of reproducibility is probably sufficient.

### Full Reproducibility

To fully reproduce the model estimation procedures the easiest method is to
delete the contents of the output folder in your local copy of the repository
and then knit the Quarto markdown documents for the studies you are interested
in. Doing this will prevent loading of the estimated models and will prompt the
script to run the estimation procedures. Note that this will run highly
computationally intensive processes. If you want to fully reproduce all the
analyses for all studies on a typical personal computer, you can probably expect
the scripts to be running for several continuous days of computing time. Bear in
mind that many of the model optimization processes not only place heavy burdens
on processors but also on memory. I don't recommend running the full scripts
with less than 16 GB of RAM. Because the processes are so time and resource
intensive, I don't recommend fully reproducing all the analyses in this way
unless you need to (e.g., you are examining the procedures for the purpose of
error detection; you have a specific technical interest).